[rocBLAS] Test Filter Standardization (#4659)
ROCm/rocm-libraries: projects/rocblas/clients/gtest/CMakeLists.txt

#
# ########################################################################

# Optional: CTest test categorization when building in rocm-libraries with shared/ctest.
# Skipped when shared/ is not present (e.g. standalone rocblas or sparse checkout in CI).
if(EXISTS "${ROCM_LIBRARIES_ROOT}/shared/ctest/TestCategories.cmake")

>   include(${ROCM_LIBRARIES_ROOT}/shared/ctest/TestCategories.cmake)

Author: Addressed: we now guard with `DEFINED ROCM_LIBRARIES_ROOT` and `EXISTS`, and quote the include path.

add_dependencies( rocblas-test rocblas-test-data rocblas-test-files rocblas-common )

# YAML-based test categories for CTest (smoke/quick, standard, comprehensive)
# Working dir: staging (test binary and rocblas_gtest.data live there)
if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/test_categories.yaml")
  enable_testing()
  message(STATUS "rocBLAS: YAML-based test categorization")
  file(MAKE_DIRECTORY "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging")
  apply_test_category_labels(
    rocblas-test
    "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/test_categories.yaml"
    "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging"

>   )

Reviewer: We need to pass an install time CTestTestfile as well here.
It is used to create a test file with relative paths at install time so that TheRock can use it for testing.

Author: Done. I've added the install-time CTestTestfile: we now create `install_CTestTestfile.cmake`, pass it as the 4th argument to `apply_test_category_labels`, and install it as `CTestTestfile.cmake` under `bin/rocblas/` so TheRock can run ctest from the installed location with relative paths. This follows the same pattern as the MIOpen POC in PR 3513.

add_dependencies( rocblas-test rocblas-test-data rocblas-test-files rocblas-common )

# CTest categories: quick (= smoke), standard (= precheckin), comprehensive (= extended), stress (= weekly)
# Only when both test_categories.yaml and shared/ctest exist (full rocm-libraries tree).
set(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE "")
if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/test_categories.yaml")
  if(ROCBLAS_HAS_CTEST_CATEGORIES)

>     enable_testing()

Reviewer 2: I suspect that we can remove this.

Author: Also resolved in PR #5678, thanks!

> set(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE "")
> if(EXISTS "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/test_categories.yaml")
>   if(ROCBLAS_HAS_CTEST_CATEGORIES)
>     enable_testing()
>     message(STATUS "rocBLAS: YAML-based test categorization")
>     file(MAKE_DIRECTORY "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging")
>     # Install-time CTestTestfile for TheRock: relative paths so ctest can run from installed location
>     set(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE "${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/install_CTestTestfile.cmake")
>     file(WRITE "${ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE}"
> [=[
> # This is a test file generated by rocBLAS for install time.
> # Tests are defined with relative paths to work in the installed location.
> ]=]
>     )
>     apply_test_category_labels(
>       rocblas-test
>       "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/test_categories.yaml"
>       "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging"
>       "${ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE}"
>     )
>   else()
>     message(STATUS "rocBLAS: shared/ctest not found (e.g. standalone checkout), skipping CTest categories")
>   endif()
> else()
>   message(STATUS "rocBLAS: No test_categories.yaml (CTest categories not used)")
> endif()
> 

Reviewer 2: We should prefer to make options ON/OFF so the user can set them and deal with the consequences if it fails. The reason to do so is so that we have determinism in our builds and it lets users know "hey you tried to turn something on but it didn't work so we are going to fail hard and asap so you can go figure it out.

```suggestion
if(ROCBLAS_ENABLE_CTEST)
    # fail here if a precondition isn't met - ie message(FATAL_ERROR...)
    enable_testing()
    file(MAKE_DIRECTORY "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging")
    set(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE "${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/install_CTestTestfile.cmake")
    configure_file("${CMAKE_CURRENT_BINARY_DIR}/install_CTestTestfile.cmake.in" "${PROJECT_BINARY_DIR}/staging/install_CTestTestfile.cmake" COPYONLY)
endif()
```
Is there any scenario where we would expect this to fail? When would you anticipate the yaml file to be unavailable? I acutally think we can move this to the highest level cmakelists.txt too and combine if logic.

Author: Good suggestion; addressed in PR #5678.

  DESTINATION "${CMAKE_INSTALL_BINDIR}"
  COMPONENT tests
)

# Install CTestTestfile.cmake to bin/rocblas/ for TheRock (relocatable tests; run ctest from that dir)

> if(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE)

Reviewer 3: This type of thing either should be in theRock documentation or maybe even duplicated into our documentation.

Author: Addressed: added an "Install-time CTestTestfile (TheRock / install tree)" section to `shared/ctest/README.md` that explains how the optional 4th argument works, where the file is installed, and how TheRock (or any install-tree consumer) runs ctest from that directory.

  DESTINATION "${CMAKE_INSTALL_BINDIR}"
  COMPONENT tests
)

# Install CTestTestfile.cmake to bin/rocblas/ for TheRock (relocatable tests; run ctest from that dir)

> if(ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if(ROCBLAS_ENABLE_CTEST)
```

Author: Also resolved in PR #5678, thanks!

  install(
    FILES "${ROCBLAS_CTEST_INSTALL_FILE}"

>     DESTINATION "${CMAKE_INSTALL_BINDIR}/rocblas"

Reviewer 2: I know that you adopted this pattern from miopen but is there a reason for putting this in the bin dir rather that the data dir or something along those lines?

see https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/module/GNUInstallDirs.html for descriptions of the different dirs.

Author: This one is a little more complicated to move, but I will make a note of it. We should do it.
